the third thing this is probably the
most important one which
i had said is that like you're gonna
notice when people are quiet
um so what do we what uh what do you go
by by the way do am i calling you hafu
or should i
go oh my god is great okay
and um what do you want to talk about
today
whatever i'm down to talk about whatever
okay that's pretty vague
how are you feeling
i am feeling okay today i'm feeling good
today is a good day some days i don't
feel as good
and it probably has to do with viewer
numbers
if i'm being candid okay and um
it feels like maybe i should be able to
do more
or maybe i should have been able to put
up better content or something
um and if i don't win any games i'm in a
really bad mood
so you and the rest of the internet
yeah so today you're feeling good and
you said in the past sometimes you feel
less
good um
so let me just ask you because i'm kind
of feeling a little bit different today
so um do you want to talk about like how
stuff works
or do you want to talk a little bit more
about like your emotions and your
experience of things
i think either i feel like i have a
pretty i mean i think everyone
can use therapy i'm not saying that i'm
too smart for therapy or anything like
that
but i feel like when i was younger i was
very unhappy i was definitely depressed
and it was kind of cool because
i was so like depressed and insecure
i put all my time and energy into wow as
an escape
and i actually become a pro wow player
and that gave me a lot of confidence
because it was
i got it yeah that's my fiance
he's also the streamer um but it gave me
a lot of confidence
and um i kind of used like game theory
to psychoanalyze myself and basically in
games
i would be like why am i losing i don't
know
uh that's not a good thing why don't i
know why i'm losing because i don't have
enough information about the game
i would like try to pinpoint the you
know exactly what i had to do against
every class
and um kind of learn from there
and so i kind of saw myself like what
what do i not like about myself
i didn't like anything about myself when
i was 17. let me tell you
and i was like very passive-aggressive
i'd kind of like lie all the time
um to just try to like make myself feel
better
i would talk poorly about others all the
time i didn't like how i looked
like everything and then i kind of went
down the line of
you know what can i fix and what do i
have to just kind of live with
and yeah now i'm i feel like now i'm 29
and um i kind of fix a lot of those
things
i think i over fix the passive
aggressive thing i'm too blunt
now i'm a little too blunt so that's
something i'm working on
um is to not be brutally honest and i
can phrase things in a better way
but other than that i feel like i'm
happy with who i am
okay so that was not what i was
expecting
oh um no i mean i
i find myself being incredibly curious
about
everything that you just summarized oh
like how so here's what i'm hearing this
is a 17 year old hafu
who lies a lot is passive aggressive
hates everything about herself
goes on this like journey of
introspection and then
is now largely happy with who she is as
a person
yeah which sounds like maybe we should
learn about that journey because maybe
there's something really really
important there
sure um and then also if there are
particular things that you still want to
kind of talk about or try to understand
uh you know we can talk about
29 year old hafu yeah then
congratulations on being engaged
thank you i still definitely have a chip
on my shoulder
um one thing that uh
my entire gaming career i've always had
people tell me i don't deserve it
and i'm trying to like kind of like tear
down my successes
um for example in world of warcraft they
said i played with the two best players
and i was just kind of like
carried to winning a bunch of
tournaments um
and then i won i went pro in a second
game called bloodline champions where i
won dreamhack
they told me that i played with the two
best players i know deserve it
um pretty much like in every single
achievement that i've done in gaming
people try to take it away from me but
now at this point it's a bit ridiculous
like
i don't think anyone tried to take away
my pogchamps 2 victory
um i don't know it's gotten better over
the years
a game oh it was a chess tournament you
know um
that streamers get invited too okay uh
so they invited all these streamers
and um i won
yeah it was uh like they it's like
hikaru and like
the bow test sisters they they coach all
like
they coach streamers and then the
streamers face off
um but yeah lately lately as i've had
more and more achievements
people have kind of just backed off a
bit but they're still
you know on the thread there's always
that one [ __ ] who just still tries to
say that i don't deserve it and stuff
it's annoying it's
deep down it does annoy me and i always
feel like i have something to prove
um and that's something i'm working on
because whenever i see someone else like
botes try to defend herself
um to haters telling her like oh you're
only successful because you're a pretty
girl and some
like i'm like oh don't defend yourself
you don't need to explain yourself
because i feel the same way like you're
very energetic
oh i've had a lot of coffee
but um yeah i feel like i still
that's something i want to work on is i
don't feel like i
should feel the need to prove myself
over and over because some people are
just going to
tear down my achievements no matter what
i do or what i accomplish or how many
things i've done you know
and um but i can't help it
i always feel like i need to prove
myself
yeah where does that come from um like i
said just
when i was younger it's just all i heard
i
i've always felt like each one of my
achievements is like an echo chamber of
like
people being like you don't actually
deserve it and you just got lucky or
like
you only have viewers because you're
female or you know
there's always some excuse and um
you're not actually that good blah blah
here are some stats um
and i oh god i got into it with my
fiance because he's
he's really really good at games and he
doesn't understand
my struggle okay so one of our biggest
fights was like
he doesn't understand the kind of
comments that i get
as an asian female versus him being a
white male
and like i don't know like no one really
tries to tear his achievements down
and i would try to explain that to him
and he didn't understand it at first but
now he
like kind of can see more from my point
of view
that just um yes i don't know
maybe it's not stupid but it feels like
girls have a lot more to prove
in the gaming space sure what does he
understand now that he didn't understand
before
that there's inherent biases in that
like no one
questions his achievements the way that
they try to pick apart mine
for the validity of mine whenever he
wins something he doesn't have people be
like okay but he's not that good like he
doesn't get those kinds of comments
sure and he did yeah it's just like
because he doesn't get it
he thinks that it's fine when i get mine
i don't know he can't relate to it at
all because it doesn't happen to him
and for the um sorry
oh i mean the example i always use that
helped him realize
was i was on his stream and someone
called me a corona [ __ ]
and i was like they're tagging in one
little phrase
they're attacking my gender and my race
right things that i'm are out of my
control
and for him he was complaining that
people said his voice was boring
and i was like you don't see how these
are different
these are like they come from a
different place
i don't know so what i'm hearing is that
sort of early on
he wasn't appreciating the significance
yeah of course we have struggles right
yeah but i mean he it sounds like maybe
he was equating some of his struggles to
some of your struggles and you felt like
that was an unfair comparison
yes yeah that every he says like
everyone gets bad comments
yeah and i was like yeah excited but
it's not the same
it's not the same thing yeah it would
always annoy me
what's different about it well
one is completely out of my control
they're attacking things that i'm born
with
and have nothing to do with even the
game
right they're just like basically um
just attacking me as a human being
instead of like an aspect about me i
guess
so they're not calling you a shitty
player which oh they did that too
but you know they do that with the other
stuff
and um i don't know i just always felt
like i had to
defend myself for why i got viewers or
um
i don't know dumb stuff
can i think for a second yeah
my child wants to tell me to say no when
you can say no can i think for a second
everyone's like say no
say no yeah
i just think it's funny that is it a
meme from your stream
yep sorry okay it has trickled over
so i do something pretty unusual which i
i guess you know has become
specific to me which is that sometimes
in conversation i actually pause to
think
and i don't just keep talking yeah
that's fair
um i think it's good too but
you know by all means say no to satisfy
your chat and let's see what happens
because no one's ever said no
no no no someone's gonna do it one day
yeah so okay hafu let's
let's talk about so um
all right so you feel like you've got
something to prove
yes yeah and i know that i shouldn't
feel that way
but i can't help but feel that way why
shouldn't you feel that way
because you can't ever please everyone
and there's some people who are just
i don't know they just live to tear
other people down so i'm gonna
thank god i'm gonna just point something
out so i shouldn't feel that way
i think that that doesn't help you solve
the problem
well feeling up getting upset about it
doesn't fix the problem
yes agreed so getting getting upset
about a problem doesn't fix a problem
but when you get upset about your a
problem and then you beat yourself
up for it anyway by telling yourself i
shouldn't feel this way
you're actually like joining the enemy
right because what you're doing is yes
so this is weird so i i want you to just
think about this
let's say that like you know i feel
insecure about
my face okay okay and then then if i
feel insecure about my face like what's
you know that like telling myself that i
shouldn't feel insecure
is actually like invalidating the way
that i feel right so imagine for a
second that you you told your boyfriend
you know when i get called a corona [ __ ]
on stream it's different from people
commenting on your voice
and then he says you shouldn't feel that
way
how would you respond to him i slapped
the [ __ ] out of him
absolutely right
but when you feel insecure about
yourself and then you tell yourself
the same thing what do you do to
yourself
i don't think i'm a corona [ __ ]
yeah but my point is that like you tell
yourself you shouldn't feel that way and
that's totally cool
but if he tells you you shouldn't feel
that way it's the same message
but if it's coming from your mind or his
mouth the response is completely
different do you see that
yeah it's a bad message but we tell
ourselves that for like
i don't we'll get into that but i just
want to point that out to you that like
actually if you stop and think about it
it's absurd and all we have to do is
transmit your thoughts to his mouth and
then you quickly see that like it's like
not
actually okay to not feel that way
but don't you think that i should
if i pay too much attention to all the
negative things don't you think
streamers would just collapse
i think let me let me rephrase i think
or
reframe the question if they pay
attention to too many negative things
would they collapse
probably but i feel like yeah yeah go
ahead
oh just you know i i mean you're a
streamer so i'm sure you can relate to
this but like
stream i mean for streamers and anyone
in the public eye you get like
thousands and thousands of affirmations
right and then
for the one for the few people who are
loud and
rude you still those stick out more
than the thousands of affirmations right
is that not
that's pretty normal no that's pretty
normal for streamers
yes that's what i'm saying so like i
i know that if i like focus on
only the negatives it will overrule me
so what i try to do is just to ignore
them
yep yeah i understand so so cool so this
is why i was thinking because this is
going to be tricky to navigate but it's
going to be awesome
so you have developed an adaptive system
right so like let's just
think off i'm going to pull out an ipad
in a second okay
so should i do it now let me think about
that
no i'm not allowed to think okay okay so
we're gonna do this if you can't fault
if it's easier or it's hard to follow me
because i'm about to get
abstract okay i'm gonna pay attention to
my chat
you pay attention to your chat and then
you let me know if i should bust it out
okay
so here's the thing you have this idea
which is
okay i can't afford to focus on the
negative
therefore when i feel negative i'm gonna
fight against that negativity so telling
yourself i should
i shouldn't feel that way is a fighting
against the negativity
and essentially an antidote to focusing
on the negative from other people
no i didn't follow okay i've had time
okay so this is this is what i'm saying
okay so like you've got
there's positive stuff on the internet
and there's negative stuff right yes and
so the negative stuff
from this is from the internet
enters your mind so here's your mind
okay so then you've got negativity in
your mind
okay okay so they say for example
you don't deserve it
okay you uh
so then what happened so like let's just
think about this when when you encounter
something with your sense organs
it enters your mind and then this
thought is present in your mind
okay so then what happens is in order to
block this thought
you have another thought you
shouldn't care
feel that way sure care is better
shorter
okay now we can't see the ipad that's
not my fault hold on hold on
good point thanks okay yeah i don't know
what you're saying i mean i don't know
what you're writing
yep thanks a lot
missed okay so we gotta i forgot one
step
oh oh there we go okay ah
oh okay i was like okay you're just
writing stuff okay okay i'm gonna
okay zoom in on that one so so let me
walk you through this again okay
no no it's not okay i'm a boomer because
i'm
okay so this is the positive and
negative stuff
is over here okay this is from the
outside this is your mind and so it
enters your mind and then this
thought gets transmitted from the
outside into your mind
okay you with me and then what you do so
this is the
you know in terms of like biochemistry
and neuroscience and stuff we use this
symbol to imply
inhibition okay okay
so and then so this is the thought that
you tell yourself to
[Music]
fight against this idea that you don't
deserve it you with me
yes okay but now now as we pointed out
this thought is actually invalidating
right you remember like why so so so
because like like we said with your
boyfriend like if you feel
bad in a particular way and your
boyfriend says
you sure sorry fiance says you shouldn't
care you'd slap him across the face
yeah right and and so what that means is
that like oddly enough
when we feel bad about something instead
of invalid like like telling ourselves
um
because when you say you shouldn't care
it's sort of like saying like you're
stupid for caring
uh yeah it's more like
yeah go ahead you shouldn't care because
if you care every time then
like you can't do anything about people
like that
if you waste energy being upset then you
will be upset most of the time
i agree so remember this is an
adaptive response yeah it's like the
best
it's not a perfect thing but it's more
like the best
way to handle it because your brain
can't ignore
all of the negativity yep but if you
focus on the negativity and you allow
yourself to get upset over every time
and try to defend yourself
from it every time then it becomes more
and more toxic
completely agree completely i think
you shouldn't care is the best response
that i have
i completely agree which is why so so
here's the thing
when you tell yourself you don't care
what happens to this thought
that it doesn't matter so what's the
chip on your shoulder
that there's still people saying that
[ __ ] is annoying
right so what this means okay so so what
this means is like this is still an
open wound
right like the reason that this is the
chip on your shoulder
is because this is the feeling that you
invalidate for yourself
so essentially what your adaptive
response does
is takes that emotional hurt and makes
it
dormant right so you suppress it by
telling yourself you shouldn't care
but the problem is that it continues to
live there and you never really get free
of it
but there's no solution other than like
there's no
better way to deal with it like i
understand what you're saying what i'm
doing is sweeping it under the rug
right yep very good yes i understand
but there's nothing i can do i can't do
anything about it i can't
i can't yeah i feel like that's the best
way to handle it
do you suggest another way to handle it
absolutely i'm going to teach you
another way
oh okay right so so it
totally okay so let's talk for a second
all right so hold on
no [ __ ]
oh this will be interesting yeah because
whenever i've thought about this it was
like
there's nothing i can do to control
other people so the best way
i can oh [ __ ] hung up on her
sorry hello yeah sorry i just was i
tried to stop screen sharing with you
and hung up on you instead because
oh you're all good you're all good okay
yeah i mean from my perspective it's the
best way because
there is no other solution i i
understand where you're coming from and
i think that's what gets us into these
problems is that
we've lost the understanding of like how
this stuff works
so i i think that that it's very good
that you have developed this adaptive
response
but i think that in general if we want
to grow as people what happens is that
our minds and our brains
come up with the best answer that they
know how and when did you start
telling yourself that you shouldn't feel
that way
um i'm gonna cry
but i used to just get a lot of
harassment
on twitch and
oh i'm gonna cry i knew it's gonna cut
at some point but just
it used to be really bad for me and
twitch didn't have any systems to
protect streamers
and i had to make the choice between
like streaming
or quitting right like i either had to
just live
with it in order to quit and i almost
did quit
i almost did quit um
it's gotten so much better over the
years and
i don't face any of that now so it's in
the past
but is it a lot of it is it's like
i can't even express how bad it was
i can't even express how bad it was it
was so [ __ ] bad back then
but you know it was my career and i
always felt like
you know streaming is my job i dropped
out of college where it's something i
love doing
and just felt like i had to uh
i had to suck it up or i had to quit
and so i really tried to suck it up for
a long long long time and i got to a
breaking point and i almost did quit
and i don't even remember why i didn't
but um
yeah i mean i i have no complaints
anymore
i have a really nice community and
everyone's nice and everyone else's
communities too whenever i collab with
people
and it's been so much better um
but i felt like if i didn't have the
attitude that i would just break
you know like i couldn't do anything
else about it
it was so bad that i would bottle it up
and then just like break down once every
month
it'd be like when i'm pmsing or
something and i i like couldn't handle
it
i'd take a day off and i would just cry
every month
i haven't cried in so long to be honest
but i remember it was so so
so hard but i mean what else could i do
like i don't know it felt like it was
the only thing i knew how to do was
stream
so i just felt like i should just suck
it up
it sounds like you felt really trapped
yeah
really really trapped
but yeah like i said it's gotten so much
better now and
times are changing and like i don't know
harassment used to be like cool
like 10 years ago it really was
and i feel like that has changed and i
can't emphasize how grateful i am for
like twitch
you know like there's auto mod there's
like i don't know
a lot of there's just a lot more tools
to help streamers
and uh yeah i haven't i haven't even
thought about it in so long
i've just been so grateful the last few
years i've been very happy and
i yeah i don't have that to complain
about anymore
for sure sorry i'm crying a lot
but yeah it was definitely something i
had to teach myself was just to care
less
because i i remember talking to destiny
about this
uh you know destiny the stream right
he's a good friend of mine
and he's like the only thing you can do
is let it not affect you because
there's nothing you can do to control
other people
because it's not gonna stop and i was
like yeah that's right
i have to change how i think about it
because it's like the only thing i can
do
and um so yeah that's how i handled it
for years and years
so halfway i'm gonna do something a
little bit unorthodox
so a lot of times when people come on
stream and they share
powerful feelings i try to explore those
feelings with them
to sort of help them work through it not
gonna do that right now
we can do it in a little bit okay how do
you
understand you used to cry a lot
right and what i said is that when you
tell yourself
let me just walk you through
what my opinion is okay just so we can
kind of get to this point
so you get hate from the internet it
hurts
you this whole emotion that you're
feeling started with the question
when did you start or when did you learn
to tell yourself
not to care and when i was explaining i
said that
when you when you invalidate your own
feelings what you cause them to do
is to go dormant so it's a symptomatic
relief
okay it's sort of like saying um
you know i can let me just think of a
good example so if i've got like
you know if i'm sick and i take like
ibuprofen or tylenol or acetaminophen
it'll make the fever go away but as soon
as i
as soon as the tylenol wears off the
fever comes back
yeah right and so what we see is you're
constantly telling yourself you
shouldn't feel this way you shouldn't
feel this way you shouldn't feel this
way you're also saying that this is the
only thing i knew how to do which is
completely
understandable because it tends to be
how our mind reacts to things
so good for you for finding that inner
strength to
invalidate yourself for years and years
and years
and then you say that it's in the past
and this is my whole point is that like
it hasn't solved anything because we can
ask you one question
and all of those feelings that you've
buried and swept under the rug
are like right underneath the surface
yeah they are they are
definitely there but it doesn't i don't
have to deal with it anymore
so it feels like it's done you know yep
yeah it certainly feels that way
because you're taking tylenol every day
because you're telling yourself you
shouldn't care
but the reason that you're not at peace
is because it's still there and it's
like
trickling up these thoughts of doubt
right because in your mind
somewhere along the way
so if you tell yourself i shouldn't
think this way
what that also means is that there is a
part of you that does think that way
yeah does that make sense so there's
actually a part of you that does
believe that you don't deserve it
which in turn means that since you have
that insecurity
that's why the things that they say hurt
so much
because if we look at the nature of
insecurity
you know people can say a thousand bad
things about people
but what my mind is going to do is to
latch on the one thing
that hits where it hurts that's the
[ __ ] in my armor
yeah that makes sense right and so like
you're continuing they're continually
like
getting through the [ __ ] in your armor
and you're continually like healing
yourself up by telling yourself you
shouldn't have to
you know feel this way and so the other
solution
which is you can't figure this [ __ ] out
on your on your own so i think your
solution was a good one
it's the one that most streamers come up
with but the more permanent solution is
to
fix the [ __ ] in the armor to get to the
root of that insecurity
because if you get to the root of the
insecurity if like someone says
if someone starts hating on you for your
love of mayonnaise like you're not going
to give a [ __ ] about that because
you're not insecure about your love of
mayonnaise right like it just bounces
their their hate will just bounce right
off of you
and i'm sure you've faced a lot of hate
in your life but like
a lot of it bounces right off right even
at the beginning you said that there's a
small portion that like cracks through
people can say 99 good things and they
can even say 10 bad things and then like
the one that really like you're worried
about is the one that's gonna get
through
yeah thoughts about this questions
um i'm trying to think
i don't fully agree because
i'm being very honest good i know that
i'm [ __ ] good at games
and i know that i deserve all of my
achievements
but it's annoying to have to read on
every thread that i do well on
people trying to literally
you know like leaf through all of my
accomplishments to try to belittle them
but i genuinely think that i deserve my
achievements
i would i completely agree so so i don't
so this is where what's really confusing
for a lot of people is that
our mind doesn't think one way
right there's a part of your mind i'd
say 95
of your mind if i just had to give you
odds 95
of your mind is confident in your
achievements and you know that their
haters are going to hate
yeah the problem is that five percent of
you
actually believes it which is why you
have to tell yourself
that you shouldn't feel that way
so you can believe that you are
confident and you deserve
your success and at the same time you
can believe that you don't deserve it
which is mind-boggling you think you
think i really so you think
i take offense to it because i really at
the root of it
don't believe i deserve it not at the
root
that simultaneously you've got two roots
you've got a very big tree
which says i do deserve it and right
next to it
you have a smaller tree which says i
don't deserve it
but i really do think i deserve it i
know you do
i think i i think if if if the if that i
deserve it tree wasn't
as big and strong as it was you wouldn't
be able to make it as a streamer
what i'm saying is that i can ask you a
relatively benign question
which is where did you learn how to tell
yourself i shouldn't
you shouldn't like when i asked a
relatively benign question
we weren't i didn't like walk you to an
emotional
point right like yeah i didn't like i
was just like i'm drawing a [ __ ]
picture on an ipad
and then i turn it off and i ask you one
question and boom all these emotions
come off yeah yeah yeah
that tells me that there's something
dormant there there's emotional energy
that's dormant
and we like kind of like struck gold
right like just from a mental standpoint
no i mean i think being a streamer is
really taxing i think everyone
whose dreams can relate because you
you know you hear so many good things
but you also hear a lot of bad things
and like you said some of them do
get through they do hit some things that
make you know
hit points of insecurity for sure but um
yeah i mean people handle it in
different ways i i understand what
you're saying but i feel like
i can't solve can everyone solve all
their insecurities
well so the answer to that i believe is
yes
really yep and you're gonna care about
nothing
yes what
sure zero things so zero things that
people say to you
affects you yes
are you superman dude no so so they they
have
they have they have a they have a st i
mean that's been well described right
so like there's this religion called
buddhism
in this religion called hinduism but the
buddhism okay yeah right and so in
buddhism
they have a system of training to attain
a state of moksha
or enlightenment which is a state of
eternal bliss
which is what you're talking about
and the cool thing is that like if we
think about it in your case you're
saying
can you solve all insecurities you don't
need to solve all insecurities hafu
you need to solve one insecurity
[ __ ] the rest of them i mean whatever
okay okay right so like later in life
you may be if you
you know choose or lucky or unlucky
enough
to have kids however whatever your value
system is
then i'm sure you're going to get a
whole new crop of insecurities about
being a sufficient mother
so you'll continue to have them but what
i'm saying is it seems like there's one
insecurity
that affects you
effect isn't the right word that demands
a lot of your cognitive energy
on a relatively regular basis that keeps
you from being at peace
you have to work at it which i don't
want for you
i want you to just be chill right like i
want you to be like
free of that and be like have a mind
that's like tranquil that doesn't have
to fight against that
i understand but it's like fighting
against systematic like
i i hate talking about but like there's
sexism right there's like
definitely misogyny on twitch just in
gaming in general because it's so male
dominated
sure and so i feel like i'm fighting
against that which is so ridiculous like
instead of fighting against it just to
be at peace with it
does that make sense i know i'm not
fully at peace but that's what it feels
like i'm trying to fight
it's like that's not a war i wanna wage
i don't wanna like
but you fight the battle already yeah
but it's just some people you just i
don't know
because it affects me that then yeah
yeah i'm not talking about dealing with
toxicity or masculinity or
male dominated whatever you say twitch
has gotten a lot better what i'm talking
about
what i'm talking about is that despite
the fact that twitch has gotten a lot
better you carry this thing with you
it's a chip on your shoulder
and what i am hypothesizing to you is
that there is a
method to get the chip off your shoulder
and it has nothing to do with fixing the
internet
go ahead question i think it's a chip
that every girl has to
kind of wear on that's sad
and if i had my way it is sad but it's
the truth and i mean the world isn't
perfect but it's getting better
and that's fine and like i mean
it's a world that i it's a world that i
choose to live in right like i'm
choosing to be a streamer and i
i mean my demographic on twitch was 97
male until this year and then i have
like a 20
female fan base now like it's it's
because of the numbers right like
you can't help it when i don't i don't
agree
so here's here's what it is yeah sure
yeah so so so let me let me let me share
my
perspective the world is gonna be what
it is
we can't control the world i completely
agree if you're a female streamer
are you gonna have to deal with toxicity
and hatred due to your
race the various fetishes of your
audience
and your gender absolutely i completely
agree with you that you
cannot fix that i also agree with you
that if you are a female streamer
on twitch you are going to have to deal
with that yes
i completely agree can you change that
actually i'm not going to say you can't
change that because
with concerted effort as a community we
can change that
but what i'm saying is that all of that
is outside of you okay and the outside
world
sends things it's like i want you to
think about the barrier of your house
right and there's a lot of stuff going
on outside and some things from outside
of your house
enter into your house yes they cross the
plain
of the outside world and into your mind
and what i'm saying is that a chip you
can have so
i'm trying to help the
internet with their mental health it is
a huge problem
but it is not a chip on my shoulder it
is not something that causes me pain
it is not something that i struggle with
every day in fact it does the exact
opposite it's a buff the weight of the
problem that i'm trying to solve
allows me because of the way i mean now
i'm gonna sound kind of
you know like i'm awesome which okay
but because of the way that i've been
taught
to train my mind the weight of the
challenges against me
gives me fuel yeah yeah yeah
right and i know everyone understands
that like i know you've been in that
situation where
you have dealt with really painful
challenging
in unsolvable circumstances and that's
when you go super saiyan
and what i'm telling you is that it is
my belief and has been my experience
that despite the world being the way
that it is when it crosses into your
mind
based on the way that you your mind has
evolved to deal with that
has left has allowed you to survive but
has cost you peace
and what i'm saying is that there's a
possibility that there's a different way
and that you resist that is wonderful
i'll i'm gonna try to convince you but
is great
well it's like
okay i i yeah i think i'm understanding
what you're saying
but i don't agree that
you're saying that you can control what
comes into your barrier right
is that what you're saying yes what you
bring in
and i'm saying that i don't think that's
possible of course
of course you i feel like if you try to
control that too much
i just that's that's a big battle dude
you're damn right it is
i'm not willing to fight that war
okay okay so so so that's fair so i
think you're right
actually so you say it may be impossible
but what i'm really hearing you saying
is that sounds
[ __ ] exhausting and it is very it's
exhausting
it's very difficult and it's not
say it yeah finish your thoughts not
worth it
because like
okay the base example is like let's say
a girl and a guy are playing a
competitive game
they both have 20 000 viewers
which streamer do which one of them do
you think is better at the game
i think people always think the guy is
better i i have no idea
okay i'm just saying this is like the
it's like it's like an instant
assumption
that the guy is [ __ ] good at the game
and that's
what that's like an instant bias and
it's not like a
very harmful bias but it also is at the
same time
and that's the kind of thing that i feel
like it's not worth fighting against
because
it's you know biases happen for a reason
it's not rights but it's just how it is
i assume that the guy is better and
that's [ __ ] up
i'm just saying there's like a lot of
things that are just ingrained
that it's just uh you can't change the
world
inst you know like you can't change the
twitch world instantly it's because what
am i talking about changing
what's your understanding of what i'm
talking about changing where is the
effort that we're putting in
what direction is it pointed is it
pointed outside of the house or inside
the house
yeah but i would my stream be inside my
house
would my chat be inside my house very
good question
what do you think because if it is
because i would say you would consider
it is because that's the stuff you're
allowing
to enter your mind right okay so
so so yeah so this is exactly so
yeah okay cool so let me start with this
you said this sounds really hard and it
sounds like it's not worth it and i
completely agree with you so there's a
reason why very few people
attain enlightenment and the whole
reason the
little tidbit from my bio the whole
reason i became a doctor is because my
spiritual teachers told me that
unless you be can become incredibly
successful in the material world
that's like the prologue for like
playing the spiritual game
because enlightenment is way harder than
anything you can achieve and at that
point
i almost failed out of college was had a
2.2 less than a 2.0 gpa
and they were like if you can't make it
in the real world you're not going to
make it over here
and then they told me at the age of 21
go back to school
become as accomplished as you can
possibly be become as successful as you
can possibly be in the real world
and come back when you're 30. and if you
haven't made it in the material world
we're not interested
so you're right sorry this is for
religion yep i tried to become they can
do that
they can do this that
i thought religion was all accepting
no oh right so so you're right
you're okay sorry i know nothing about
religion no yeah i don't think it's
really religion
i think hafu you're right that you say
this sounds really really hard and it
sounds like it's not worth it and i'm
telling you that your instinct is
correct
it is cognitively very very exhausting
it's a lot of work and it's very
difficult
to attain to train your mind to the
point where the outside world no longer
affects you
but it's possible
now this is where like when we get down
to it what i'm talking about halfway has
nothing to do with changing the outside
world
it has to do with putting the chip
taking the chip off of your shoulder
and what i'm saying and this is tricky
because i'm not saying that you don't
care
what i'm saying is that it's it's hard
because you just have to feel it to know
what it is
you can fight for a cause without that
cause hurting you
you can believe in doing something that
is good and right and righteous and just
without it hurting you now oftentimes
the root to that fight comes from your
own personal suffering
which is exactly what happened in my
case because i was 21 playing too many
video games and
like lost and directionless and so
i have a question sorry i'm thinking
back about what you're saying
because you were saying how let's say
someone makes fun of my love for
mayonnaise which i hate mayonnaise by
the way but yeah but but something
that's so insignificant because you
don't give a [ __ ] about it that it
wouldn't hurt you right
yep that's what you're saying yep but
let's just say like
someone comes in and calls you what's a
very tame insult
a dumb ass yeah a noob
i have no i don't it's just not very
nice
like it's it's just annoying you know
what i mean to read that
it's not like uh i'm not insecure about
anything but i wouldn't like that
does that make sense i feel like it
doesn't have to be that way just a
negative comment is a negative comment
period
even if it doesn't affect you it's still
like what the [ __ ] is wrong with you why
you come in here and like be an [ __ ]
to me
that is affecting you no but but
you're reacting to it right if it annoys
you
then it's affecting you
i'm trying to think i'm trying to think
okay i'm kind of thinking someone says
you're a poo-poo head okay someone says
everyone comes in and calls you a
poo-poo head
am i insecure about being a poopoo hood
if i just that guy is just trying to be
mean to me
is that me being insecure one guy's
you know like he's just trying to i
don't know i kind of think i'm like the
most neutral
insult that i feel like i wouldn't
actually care about but it's still like
negative it's
it's uh obviously negative and meant to
be taken in a negative way
it is someone clearly trying to insult
you trying to make you feel bad
even if it doesn't make you feel bad
it's just not nice to see
does that make sense sure so i i'm not
at so i i'm with you
i think so i think that so it's
interesting we're stumbling upon
something that's very very kind of
uh important but i think we're still
it's hard for me to jump there so i'm
going to try jumping there and i can
fill in the gap
so sometimes i'll try to teach people
that detachment
is different from apathy so what i try
to do is i'll work with like clients who
are like
working in let's say investment banking
this is my favorite most common example
because you see this all the time and
they're very ambitious and i tell them
you keep suffering because you are
ambitious
and then they say but if i'm not
ambitious how can i do a good job
and i tell them you can absolutely do an
even better job if you give up your
ambition
and that gets really really confusing
for people oh
right so and and this is where this is
like this is the this good i'm
glad you're pushing back and hopefully i
want you to push back as hard as you
possibly can
okay don't worry i will fantastic right
so so let's just think about that for a
second here i am
trying to educate you and you're pushing
back
why am i not getting upset
because you want me to challenge your
ideas so that i understand things better
yeah but like but why why do i think
that way
right i i'm not a different person could
say
oh she doesn't know what she's talking
about
i'm the harvard trained psychiatrist i
don't know what i'm talking about
i mean yeah but why doesn't that piss me
off
um because it's your prerogative to
get me to understand so it's great yeah
so
question no so my point is that like
there is an
internal way that i receive what you do
that changes my perception of like
suffering or joy given the same stimulus
but i'm not trying to be like offensive
sure but if i was a narcissistic [ __ ]
i would take offense anyway
so my my point is that if you questioned
me because i mean i've
worked with people like this i had an
interaction with someone like this a
couple days ago
who like how dare you question me yeah
you don't know what the [ __ ] you're
talking about i'm a medical doctor and
you're not
right so like like the stimulus from the
outside is the same
it's the way that you build your house
that allows you to appreciate something
that could be like a challenge or
confusion or whatever
or you could interpret as an insult does
that make sense
yes yes
and so what i'm saying is that like i i
just wanted to kind of point that out
and i'll kind of get back to like
detachment so essentially the reason
that i
am this way is because i'm not trying to
convince you of anything if i was
attached to convince you of
of convincing you were teaching you
something i would be frustrated
but instead i'm unattached from that and
i say let's have a conversation with
hafu
and let's see where it goes like this
could be fun okay she's pushing back
she's resistant to this idea
cool let's play with it and see how we
can approach it it's all about the
attitude
yes yeah your attitude yes i mean
that's kind of what i think what destiny
was trying to tell me was like i have to
change my attitude towards it
but instead of but you're saying it's
how to
change your attitude instead of just
telling yourself that you shouldn't care
right yeah because i i think extremely
hard
yeah so so here's here's i'll i'll just
be
explicit for a second so i think that
what you have is this ball of undigested
emotion
which is called a samskar and this is
what happens essentially with trauma is
like a good example
where like i use this example with my
kid where like my kid is scared of dogs
and so you know if she's walking down
the street and she gets bit by a dog one
day
the next day when she sees a dog across
the street
she freaks out she gets this upwelling
of emotion
that is inappropriate to the actual
situation
yes okay because that emotion is a
leftover
from like hurt past okay and that some
scar
is also what we call an insecurity right
so if i'm insecure about my appearance
it's because i got bullied a lot when i
was in grade school
and people called me ugly and so then i
carry that emotional hurt with me
so that when you know when i message
someone on tinder and i'm like hey do
you want to hang out sometime
and they say no my mind fills in the
reason that they're saying no
is not because i'm a narcissistic
[ __ ] it's because i'm
not a chad thundercock right yeah
like we fill it in based on our past
emotional hurts and what i'm telling you
is that it's in my experience
and i feel pretty confident about this
you can digest
that emotional energy and once that
emotional energy has been digested the
insecurity is gone
this is essentially what happens in
therapy
oh yeah i i am skeptical i feel like i
cannot
like um
i don't know yeah i i understand what
you're saying but i'm trying to imagine
be getting to the state and just like
having a hundred like a thousand people
come in my chat saying you're [ __ ]
ugly and then
not caring i'm trying to really imagine
that situation
and i don't see it happening i don't see
that happening
yeah so so of course not right so so now
now hafu i think your skepticism is very
well founded
and the simple reason is that sometimes
it's hard
when we have a wealth of experience that
points us one way
and then some [ __ ] [ __ ] comes
along on twitch and tells you that it
doesn't have to be that way
and you've been streaming on twitch for
how many years oh
okay well i'll challenge that one more
time okay
so the reason let's say like something
i'm not insecure about
okay i'm blunt right i'm really blunt so
let's say
a thousand people come to my chat and
say you're so [ __ ] passive aggressive
what is wrong with you
it would get to me because i'm like oh
what did i do that was passive
aggressive and
then i would like really question it and
you know but why do you use the term
passive aggressive
why are you using passive aggressive in
this example why do you pick that
because i'm not passive aggressive at
all i'm just aggressive
i'm just blunt so like that would be
something i'm not insecure about because
i'm no
i'm the very opposite you know so i'm
trying to
think of like something that they could
say that's negative about me that i
don't feel insecure about at all but
still i would address it because i'd be
like
wait why wouldn't you get that you can
continue to address things so this is
the where the detachment and apathy are
different it doesn't mean that you don't
act in the world
it just means that you don't suffer
because of it okay
yeah okay okay yeah i think i wouldn't
suffer for that but
i think i would suffer a thousand people
came and told me i was ugly
yup because you're probably a little bit
insecure about your appearance
like most human beings yeah i guess you
don't
fully i don't know right so so now we
can even see
we can yeah hafu i'm glad you're pushing
back because i think you're digging
yourself into a hole
no no no it's good so i know i think
it's i think it's very good so so now we
can even see
another principle of some scars which is
that depending on the size
of the some scar it's like the weakness
in your armor gets
weaker and weaker and weaker because in
terms of like
your you deserving it your some scar
there is larger
okay and it's not really that you don't
deserve to win the sumscar is actually
something else which we'll get to in
later if we ever get there but it has to
do i think more with your loneliness and
your isolation and you being put back
into a place
when you are really hurting because
that's the emotion that's the volcanic
eruption that we got for you
so there's the and the other thing about
some scars the tinier the some scar
the more comments it's going to take for
you to be
hurt there crack but for you to yeah
right so there was one comment that like
and i mean there's a reason why i picked
that right so i know which questions to
ask because i've sniffed out your some
scar
and then i have to just like lance it
with a you know with a pin
it doesn't take a whole lot and the
emotion comes rushing out and there are
other insecurities that you have
that it's gonna take like a drill
to get them okay and it just has to do
with the size of the emotional energy
and let me put it to you this way since
we know that they're big sum scars and
small sump scars
what if i told you that you could take a
big sumscar and turn it into a small
sumscar
if you could feel if you could respond
when people say oh you don't deserve it
you would respond to it the way that you
do if people tell you you're ugly
which is that it hurts a little bit but
it doesn't really hurt that much
would that be worth it
the deserving thing it's not really
deserving so
that's the thing i'm gonna be honest i
really think i deserve things
i know that's why deserving is a bad is
it is a bad it's not really deserving
it's not it's not deserving that's not
really what the some scar is if you want
to get to the sump scar
more so thinking back what well the the
point at which i cried
was thinking about how i used to be so
scared to collab with people and kind of
like have to
deal with chat every day because yeah
you know so if you want to get really
precise it's not deserving
okay yeah yeah it's not that i like that
i i know that so
here's the reason why deserving brings
it out because our brain
scans the external environment and tells
us when to bring
some scar to the surface and what's
happening is when people
so like my daughter who's been
traumatized by a dog if she walks
if she sees a cat across the street the
some scar doesn't trigger
so the only thing it's not the i know
you deserve it i've
sort of gleaned that but i think what
happens is those
discussions yeah remind your mind
of a time when you felt a particular way
so that's like the trigger
it looks like a dog and then those
emotions which really have nothing to do
with deserving because you've built up
other some stars over the last decade
but that emotional energy
is is still there definitely no i don't
know i think yeah i think you've hit the
i yeah you're right
i have internalized a lot of it because
that was the best way i knew how
to add time yeah and
um it definitely still is there
but it has gotten better to the point
where i don't
it used to be stuff i would think about
on the daily like
it would eat eat at me every day
constantly
now i don't think about it almost ever
and uh yeah like i said i used to have
monthly cries like
it was like clockwork because you know
you have to bottle up somewhere and then
at one point it's just overwhelming
and then boom cry it out and then just
like start sucking up again or sucking
yeah yeah just like um
ignoring it ignoring it up again yeah
sucking it up again
and important two letters there yeah
and now i know i don't have that like in
the last year two years
i haven't had that at all i haven't
cried
because of something like that in over
two years
so it feels better now but when i think
about that time
yeah it was just so bad and
um i don't know it feels like because it
doesn't happen anymore i don't have to
deal with it sure it's been swept under
the rug
yeah but it's like uh you know it's like
neatly packed
now yeah and dormant yep
it's a nice little volcano that has yeah
it's dormant it's just
yeah so so this is where you know hafu
you've got to make a choice
okay and so if you want to let it lie
dormant you can let it lie dormant the
rest of your life
and then depending on whether you
believe the the hindus
would this disagree about this it'll
carry with you to the next life
um and you know
it's a kind of material but in my
experience
and take this for what you will
i'm not pushing you i don't think you
need to fix this because i think you're
an incredibly strong resilient woman who
has learned how to
you know adapt to your circumstances
learned how to be successful
learned how to find happiness you're not
that girl who bottles everything up and
cries once a month anymore you've like
grown into something truly awesome with
you
and at some point you have to decide
whether you want to just let this stuff
go
completely whether you want to open up
the rug
because you're right you packaged it
very neatly
and then get rid of it and i suspect
it's going to be far
easier than you think it is because when
you open it
you think i think i know a little bag of
trauma that i just
don't want to look at yeah it's a very
traumatic time in my life yep so let me
explain to you
let me explain to you why i think it'll
be easier than you think
it is because you're when you
rate its difficulty right so you're pro
wow streamers so like
you wiped on that mob when you were 17
you're not you're not level 17 anymore
you're level 29
you're not the same person who faced
those problems you're a completely
different person
you're stronger you're more resilient
you're more confident you have the
support of a loving fiance you have the
support of a loving community
so you're like partying up and zoning
into like
what's that [ __ ] low-level instance
i quit wow 10 years ago dude i don't
anyway
i won my tournaments when i was 17. i'm
29.
yeah so so so what i'm saying is that
hafu i think the reason that it'll be
easier to deal with than you think about
is because
your your assessment of the challenge
rating of this problem
was made when you are way lower level
than you are now
yeah i don't think so
i feel like this is not something i can
tackle
i'll be honest i'm thinking about it i
don't think it's something i can get
over
yeah so i think that's reasonable
because i'm thinking something i have to
get over yeah
i agree with i understand what you're
saying
i'm not gonna push you but um i think
that
it's reasonable to think that you're not
gonna be able to go over it because you
haven't done it yet
right if you go into a raid boss and you
wipe 10 times
and then i ask you can you down the boss
you're gonna be like ah
yeah not really so i think that a lot of
your resistance is completely
understandable because i do think you're
someone who relies a lot on your own
experience
i'd say that you you tend to not have
faith in other people's opinions
no it's not that i don't have faith in
your opinion
i don't i don't consider it a bad thing
i think it's part of probably part of
what's made you successful
as successful as you are because you
rely so heavily
on your own judgment yes right you've
come to trust yourself
and because the world told you something
just think about this for a second
the world has been telling you something
and you had to learn
how to not trust what they're saying
and so of course you wouldn't trust me
because you've learned how to not
trust what other people say you're like
i need to do it until i
see it taste it and eat it for myself i
don't think so
yeah now whether that
is a part of your interpersonal conflict
we can you know
[Laughter]
no i agree but even when you were
passive aggressive you were still quite
rigid in your thinking you just didn't
let people know
this is it's part of your temperament
a lot of things
yeah i was just able to cycle analyze
myself and kind of
pick apart it's like well
for example like with my ex i would
always try to like test him to see if he
really loved me
and like kind of like pick a fight and
stuff and then i noticed i was doing
that and i
stopped and i would catch myself doing
it it's really hard to like look at
you know bad parts of yourself
but i was actually because of games i
was able to do that
and um
yeah i don't know i'm much happier with
who i am now than i was
like a decade ago and it wasn't like an
overnight thing is like addressing one
problem at a time
kind of being like why the [ __ ] am i
doing this thing like when i think about
it from a logical standpoint
like it makes no sense and then i can
address it from there
but yeah it's not like an overnight it
wasn't like an overnight realization
yeah so how i'm just confused now
because you seem to be making a really
really great argument for what i'm
saying
because that's what i'm encouraging you
to do so awareness
of a some scar is what leads to its
emotional digestion
and the change does take time it is
effortful and you end up way happier at
the end of it
and if you do that enough times and you
get really good at that process of
psychoanalyzing yourself
noticing what you do and altering it
if you do that over and over and over
and over and over again at some point
you
level up in your skill at doing that
okay but let's okay let's break down one
of them
okay example i don't think i'm ugly
but i don't think i'm like the most
attractive person ever right
so i'm not insecure about my looks but i
don't love my looks you know i don't
think i'm like
you know you know like i think at one
point you have to just accept who you
are
it's like do i want to get plastic
surgery or
am i okay with who i am right like those
are your options you can like
try to change how you look so you really
like how you look or you can accept it
right those are your options
degree yeah so i've gone with the
acceptance route where i'm okay with how
i look
but it doesn't mean that i that i feels
great about how i look right
sure so how am i supposed to not how am
i supposed to get over if
people come in and tell me i'm ugly this
is a dumb one but like how am i supposed
to just
disregard those comments forever if i
have to just settle with
i'm okay with it but i don't you know
well because because so
any sense yeah it makes a lot of sense
but like so but
i feel like yeah so that makes perfect
sense because the whole point
is that you know you have a small sum
scar there
and so then you're saying how do i learn
to be okay with the some scar because
you haven't fully accepted the way that
you look
because you're unhappy fully no i'm not
super unhappy this is like
i'm not so it's a tiny yeah but you're
not super unhappy with it which also
means that you're a little bit unhappy
with it
yes yes i'm definitely a little unhappy
with how it looked but i feel like it's
not a real insecurity
yeah because it's not a real insecurity
it's a baby insecurity
but then but then that sun scar how do i
get that sunscreen to go away
you continue working on it right so so
this is where i can show you how to work
on a sump scar
okay so for that one how would how could
we tackle what are you unhappy about
with your appearance
hate this so much
see there it is there's the subscriber
you see that right beneath the surface
right beneath the surface it's not as
small as you think it is hapu
i mean
no no i know what i don't like about
myself but i don't want to like
go through all these little things but
there are okay there it is no no no no
you don't get to get away with that
you said i know what i don't like about
myself but i don't want to not like that
there it is there's the [ __ ] you
remember the diagram where you're
invalidating the way that you feel
the invalidation i wish my pores were
smaller
i wish my boobs were a little bigger i
wish my nose was a little smaller
i wish my eyes were a little bigger i
wish i had more fuller eyebrows
naturally i wish i wish
my skin was less oily i wish
my butt was bigger i'm working on that
i'm going to the gym
how does it feel to say that it's fine
i'm okay saying all this stuff
and that's the thing it's like i'm okay
saying it's just weird
to say this stuff because i actually am
okay
stop talking for a second how do you
feel what do you notice in yourself
what are you feeling right now slightly
embarrassed that i have to
go through all the flaws yeah right so
that's the some scar
because if you were truly like if i said
i'm fine with my hair
i have big pores too i kind of wish my
dick was bigger
i'm skinny fat i have dad bod like
you know i could list the things that i
know that are not
good about my appearance and i don't
really give a [ __ ]
like i truly i mean i have a little
insecurity there too because i can feel
that embarrassment
about some of those things and not other
things
so you do have some insecurities sure
i'm not [ __ ] you
yeah but i never said i was enlightened
yes you did you just told me what are
you talking about i said you have no
insecurities here like yeah i have no
insecurities no no i didn't say
i have no clip it and ship it he [ __ ]
said it
before before i didn't say i have no
idea
is it possible no i'm not enlightened
hafu
i'm a [ __ ] twitch noob oh
i thought i swear you said you have no
one i think you're not insecure about
anything you're like yeah
nothing that chad could say could it
affect me that's what oh i thought oh
no no oh yeah yeah so so you didn't say
that
no i mean i i i say that i really don't
get affected by chat that's true
but if any but you just admitted to
having some
insecurities about how you look so if
someone in chat said
one of those things it wouldn't affect
you hasn't yet
or much really yeah
that doesn't make sense it i know it's
confusing because until you experience
it
until you experience it hafu you're not
going to understand i mean like it's
just
my experience right so part of what i do
so this is kind of weird
but you can fix an insecurity or what
you can do is accept that you're
insecure
which then keep makes it gives you
detachment from it
yes i have i feel like i've accepted
my insecurities on the way i look
because i feel like
no no no i'm talking about something
else so you can accept your in
well no maybe not hold on
because um i mean so i just settled
i'm just done with that stuff oh yeah
see there you go
that's kind of that's kind of where it
is it feels better yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah so i i mean i don't
think i don't think and i certainly hope
i've never made this claim or people
haven't gotten this impression that i'm
enlightened i'm not
perfect i've just trained a lot and i do
tend to think that i experience
less suffering than the average person i
believe that
right so like generally speaking like
even when things don't go well for me
like sometimes i'll get upset
of course like i noticed that i was
actually way more
sort of spiritually adept until i had
kids and then i noticed all kinds of
like attachments arising for a while
i tried to fight them for a while and
then actually what i realized is that
you know what i'm just gonna be attached
to my kids
and that's okay and i sort of let go or
accepted the fact that i was going to be
attached and i would never become
enlightened so i sort of was like
okay
not going to be able to do that anymore
but anyway i apologize if i gave you the
impression that i was
perfect in in because i'm really i
really
i just remember when i asked you i was
like wait you have no insecurities and
you're like no
i'm sorry you said that i'm pretty sure
i didn't say i had no insecurities
but maybe i misspoke
i mean this is being streamed on twitch
so people can go back and yeah i know
people are saying you did say it people
said he did say it
he's gaslighting you okay so he did i
remember that you're not crazy
so uh okay i misspoke that's what no no
no you're all good
no that's consider me checkmated no no
it's all good um because i was like
basically
i think things like that like you're
right i'm not perfectly happy with how i
look but is that is that necessarily a
bad thing i feel like that's not
that's like a human thing yeah sure but
that's why you know enlightenment is not
human
okay so so is it do a lot of people
suffer with it is it
acceptable absolutely but i think that
you know i personally believe that you
should strive for as much happiness as
you can in this life
yes and that's true i have a lot of
happiness
yeah so and i'm trying to get
so let me let me just say so when you
owned your insecurities and you felt
that embarrassment that some scar
got a little bit smaller
yeah definitely i mean i was so insecure
with how i looked when i was younger
to the point where i remember vividly
like
my my high school boyfriend came over
unannounced
i didn't have makeup on and had glasses
i got lasik
um i glasses i had no makeup on and he
rung the doorbell and i opened it and i
slammed it in his face because i thought
he was gonna break up with me as soon as
he saw me
because no one could ever love me how i
was like that's i remember having that
exact thought
and then he actually helped a lot
because after he was like what you
looked fine
and i was like huh so that helped a lot
it's like a very vivid memory
um yeah it sounds like you've grown
immensely halfway
yeah i think i have i think i'm a really
logical person and i
treat my self and my own problems the
way i treat games
and like i said i [ __ ] deserve my
gaming success because i'm [ __ ] good
at them
but um um
okay i mean going back to like
when i when i was saying like the
systematic thing like
i don't know i always bring this example
up because it's a very
jarring one that i think people can
understand uh so when i was 17 i was a
pro owl player and there was a team that
qualified on the tournament realm
called gonna rape hafu at regionals
and they qualified and nothing was done
about their team name
and you know that was kind of the
attitude of the gaming culture at the
time
and so like when you look at that
how are you supposed to just
be okay with that
so let me ask you something as you share
this story
do you s so like as we've talked about
particular subjects there have been
little volcanoes or big volcanoes that
have erupted
right do you notice any eruption
as you share this story a tiny one
quiver here yeah yep so so when you say
okay so like let me ask you this if we
look at the size of the story
and the size of what you're talking
about in the outside world that is
gigantic right
it's huge that's [ __ ] insane
it's unjust it's terrible why is there
not
a volcanic eruption in you because
things have gotten better and people are
more aware of
this kind of attitude and it used to be
kind of like
the attitude back then was it's expected
of you to just suck it up
like why are you even complaining that
kind of thing it was like a very
normalized
and so that's what i did okay so so
no one ever spoke up against it and like
including myself or my teammates or
anyone at blizzard you know so what i'm
hearing what i'm hearing is that the
world has changed and that's why
this story doesn't hurt more to tell
it's
getting better it gives me hope i didn't
have hope back then
and i have hope that things will
continuously get better
okay so is hope inside the house or
outside the house
it's inside i think okay so your
question was how are you supposed to be
okay with it right
yeah yeah i think like how are you so if
someone goes through that like
how are you supposed to be like that
shouldn't affect you right no no
hold on yeah but i think we you have the
answer i don't actually have the answer
you have the answer so let's just map
this out so you're saying
how are you supposed to be okay with it
and my my answer to your question
is how are you so okay with it
because remember that's a gigantic thing
outside of your house
but you having lived through that do not
have a volcanic eruption
you are relatively speaking at peace
with it you're relatively speaking you
have
hope the inside of your house is good
despite something so god-awful
happening on the outside of the world so
how can you have such a gigantic
terrible thing as going to a pro
tournament and having
a team name that is denigr like
denigrating offensive
and threatening to you and you're just
sitting here on stream talking about it
um
because when it's ancient too like like
i said i think
um i think the gaming
community as a whole has grown a lot
since then
and just the industry has grown a lot
since then and i yeah so i think the
reason you're okay with it has
nothing to do with that really yes
you're leaving one important person out
in terms of growth and change
gaming industry that's not going to do
anything to your suffering
what are you doing i'm part of the
gaming industry and it makes
it gives me hope that you know like i
think in another 10 20 years like it's
just gradually getting better this is
from a decade more than a day so i think
hope is reasonable but i still think you
asked me the question
how are you supposed to be okay with it
and i think the same
how are you okay with it i think it's
because you've grown as a person
because you've developed hope hope is
inside the house
that's how you got to be okay with it so
my whole point here hafu is that
there's a line between the outside world
and the inside world and you're saying
how are you supposed to be okay on the
inside of your house when
the capitol building is on fire in
washington dc
and that has to do with you how the [ __ ]
are you not so traumatized
that you quit twitch entirely or quit
pro gaming
forever when there was a team that
showed up in the regional qualifiers
that's name was we're gonna rape you how
are you able to do that i don't think
twitch gets credit for that
i don't think the gaming community gets
credit for that i think you get credit
for it
i mean like i said there's no other
option
the option is to like
i still choose to be here i still choose
to be in this world
that's how you do it yeah that's the
only way
it's like you can't do anything because
these things exist
they happen and it's like
the only way is to accept like to you
know to to be okay with it
that's the only way or else i would have
had to quit
right like that what else could i do
that's what i'm saying so you're saying
that you
like like you're asking how are you
learning to be okay with it i think you
got
halfway there right like you grew as a
person like my i feel like
i don't know if it sounds to me like
you're arguing with me but i feel like
we're both saying the same damn thing
maybe like i because i everything you're
saying
doesn't feel to me like it's a point
against what i'm saying i feel like it's
a point
to support what i'm saying because if
you really look at it analytically
a huge stressor from the outside should
correlate
with a large emotional response on the
inside but if we look at you
scientifically what we see
is there are gigantic stressors on the
outside that lead to tiny little
eruptions
like a slight quiver in your throat and
they're relatively benign questions like
when did you
learn how to say you shouldn't do that
to yourself that lead to huge emotional
eruptions
ergo minor stressors lead to large
things on the inside
and big stressors lead to small things
on the inside therefore we
this is one instance right this is one
instance and i don't have to think about
it every day whereas the other thing is
something to do with like chat which i
had to deal with on a daily basis
um so that some scar like
snowballed like crazy so that's i think
that's why it's like a similar vein but
it's not like
i had that happen to me every day this
is one instance
that happened and the other one is like
on a daily every single day
i'm experiencing this well whether a mob
on stream or off stream
so what i take away what i take away
from that is the size of the stressors
i'm misnaming
right so like there's getting there's
getting bitten by a lion
once in your life and then there's get
getting bit by a dog every [ __ ] day
one yeah the dog is going to be far more
traumatized absolutely yes
so i think that's why yeah well no so so
i still think though that
i see what you're saying and so i
concede that point if we're arguing
something
but i still think that that doesn't have
to be an argument
what i still think is fundamental here
is that
there is some amount of something you
can do when something crosses the
threshold between the outside world and
your house
yes and when you ask how are you okay
with it you have to study
that thing right so like i don't get to
choose what life throws my way
but i get to choose how i react to it
yes
that's how you learn to be okay with it
right it's these issues of acceptance
because
like think about 17 year old you and how
accepting you were of your appearance
and think about 29 year old you and how
accepting you are of your appearance
i don't think the outside world and in
this case the outside world
your body has changed drastically
between 17 and 29
okay right but you your attitude
towards it you have become more okay
just imagine talking to 17 year old you
and how confused 17 year old if you told
17 year old you if you went back in time
and you told 17 17 year old you was like
i'm ugly like no one can ever see me
like this and you said
actually you're gonna be like relatively
okay with your appearance you're never
gonna look perfect
but you're gonna feel confident in the
way you look and then 17 year old you
would ask you the same
[ __ ] question you're asking me yeah
that makes sense
so you're saying i have to tackle it in
the same way so think about why is it
affecting me so much
and like um your thing is these things
i'm not
i'm not except i don't think i can get
my mind to accept those things
sure well but i think it's like a fair
thing to accept
yeah okay so so it's not only to do what
you've done so far because i think what
you've done so far is
quite amazing but there are other
methods that you just haven't learned
yet
right so you've managed to increase your
acceptance from 17 to 29 about your
appearance
so you've learned to be okay with
something that you one day thought
you would never be okay with without
something outside of your house changing
my point is that the change happens on
the inside doesn't happen on the outside
as far as i know you didn't get plastic
surgery i mean maybe you did not
have to answer it you don't like the
matter so so just just for clear
clarity like nothing has objectively
changed but you have changed
and all i'm saying to you is that even
when it comes to your insecurity about
whatever the [ __ ]
it is i i mean we can dig into it if you
want to
that too can change you can come to
accept it and you can feel
more peace like you do now about your
appearance compared to where you were 17
years ago
that's the process of growth yes
hmm
i'm trying to think and i'm still kind
of fighting just
push i know i know you're just push
just push okay
so you think that because i have
not like a vlog eruption but just
because
i get annoyed by certain comments that
those comments actually affects me
into okay so
a comment like
what annoys me i don't want to say it
because then they're gonna say it
see there's the some scar right you see
that well
yes have you seen twitch chat you tell
them not to do something what are they
gonna do they're gonna do it
chad no one spam kappa no one spam it
and now let's spam it what bothers you
hafu
if i turn out to be right what bothers
you about that why do you have trouble
it doesn't bother me i think more so
like no it doesn't bother me
it's more so like i'm trying to
okay i'm trying to think of something
um
i can't think of something but let's say
someone is just
someone is just hate watching and just
very negative actually it's really cool
on twitch you can look at someone's chat
messages right and sometimes you see
someone i
like i see something in chat and
sometimes i'm annoyed i've lost a game
right
i've lost the game i'm in a bad state of
mind because i'm salty
and i see something criticizing the way
i play
and i click his messages and i scroll
through
and every single out of the 200 messages
they've wrote
is negative in one way or another every
single message is meant to tear me down
am i justified i'm being annoyed
justified absolutely or but it's
but you're suggesting the best way to
deal with it is to be
at home you're saying it's two different
things right
bro hold on a second this is where the
money is okay
why do you click on their name well i
want to see if i'm
being why unreasonable because if
they're just a normal person
you want to see if you're being
unreasonable what's going on in your
mind at that moment
maybe i'm being a salty [ __ ] i have to
see if it's you know me being salty or
not
no it's not you being salty the reason
you look
is because maybe they're right
yeah cause you're sad i'm sorry that's
the [ __ ]
[Laughter]
so this is really important okay this is
really really important
why do we go fishing for things that
hurt us right i'll give you an example
so like let's say i get dumped by my
girlfriend i'm feeling bad about myself
you said you're feeling salty and then
what do i go
do when i'm feeling bad about myself at
two in the morning after being
dumped i got dumped a month ago i log on
to instagram or facebook or whatever
and i go look at pictures i see one
picture of my
ex with another dude and then i click on
it and i look at all the pictures
and i just torture myself i go looking
for that hurt
why the [ __ ] do we do that as human
beings
i don't know that's a good question
that's relatable absolutely because
that's what you're doing on twitch chat
well i need to feel justified when i ban
their ass you know what i'm saying
yeah you need to feel all kinds of you
need to feel
validated when you click on that you
feel
validated right and i'll tell you so for
the the dude who looks at picture of his
pictures of his girlfriend he tells
himself i'm a good person
but inside he feels unlovable and every
single picture that he looks at of
another human like
another dude with his girlfriend he's
like [ __ ]
i knew i was unlovable i knew i was
unlovable i knew i was unlovable
it's validating that's why we torture
ourselves
because it's not telling yourself
because here's the option right like so
in that moment when i see my
ex-girlfriend with another dude
i tell myself oh there are other fish in
the sea
you should let her go man it's no big
deal you're a good looking guy and
you're like [ __ ] you
that's invalidating i'm gonna go and
torture myself because it's how i feel
and i want the world to see how i feel i
don't want to be alone with those
feelings anymore
okay even if it hurts sure
so you're saying every time i get
annoyed at a comment it's my
insecurities
that they have said something that i
think
is true is that true though let's say
someone calls me
okay let's just say someone comes in and
says something racist to me
okay and i get annoyed and i
ban them is that an insecurity thing
i don't think so could be
so so there's a there's an extreme so
there's an extreme way to take this hafu
and there's a practical way to take this
yeah yeah i'm just trying to understand
because i'm trying to think i've been a
lot of people
let me let me let me let me try to share
with you a couple of things because i i
think the more philosophical and
theoretical this gets i think the less
useful it is
okay so you can play that game if you
want to but here's what i would tell you
okay i think that you are an awesome
person it's clear to me you've grown a
lot i don't really know who you were
back then but you clearly
come across as someone who is confident
in yourself and has grown immensely and
has suffered
you have the mark of past suffering on
you yes
i see that very clearly you've gotten to
where you are
you seem happy you're engaged things are
fantastic you sort of talk about being
blunt and maybe some
other people think you should change
that and you tell yourself maybe you
should change that but you're actually
completely fine with being blunt i am
trying to think i know i can tell
so like but there's that part of you
that's but like you see that too is like
where you say oh maybe i shouldn't be
that way but you're actually really
validating and accepting of yourself
there even though
that's contrary to the should but that's
another separate point i'm with you
so right so now here's what i'm
proposing to you it's something for you
to pick up and play with if you want to
okay
despite all of your growth despite all
of this stuff
you're not perfectly happy no right no
one is ever perfectly happy
unless you're enlightened yep there you
go okay
so so here's what i perceive in you
is that there is still a some scar that
is actually quite big
which doesn't get triggered very much
because you don't see many dogs on the
street anymore
okay but you're still carrying it around
yes and in my experience just like you
were carrying a lot
around a lot of insecurity when you were
17 you're not carrying that [ __ ] around
anymore
and it feels good it lets you be happy
and you say but this isn't that big of a
deal because it doesn't affect me every
day i get that
but i'm telling you hafu generally
speaking the closer you get to the top
the harder it is to rise
it's just like climbing mount everest
it's just like the wow ladder
you can take whatever it's a universal
principle of life
i agree and so what i'm offering you
by offering i mean i'm proposing a
hypothesis that i think you would be
happier
and maybe this is what you're running up
against i think you would be happier if
you let this go too
that you shouldn't walk around shouldn't
[ __ ]
that that there is a possibility to walk
around without the chip on your shoulder
yes and how would you start trying to
clear that slump scar
so i think we you feel the emotions in
the present is the short answer
right so i didn't do this with you today
because i had a feeling this would be
way more fun and i'm glad that we've had
this discussion
but like basically when you had started
crying if i'd asked you more questions
about it
what we would have done is lift up the
rug and start sweeping stuff out
right we would like we would validate
you we would get you to listen and you
would feel like
you'd start processing those emotions
you'd start digesting it
because when we sit with an emotion is
when we digest it
and this is the difference because like
when you were 17 and someone said
something hurtful about your appearance
one comment would be so overwhelming
you'd distract yourself from it you'd
sweep it under the rug whatever
and it would hurt you whereas now what
happens is someone says something dude
they're continual insults people are
attacking you all the time
but as you grow up and as your buddhi
which is a part of your mind that helps
you digest emotions
grows more robust you can process things
for yourself so that they never become
some scars
so when my five-year-old gets bit by a
dog she's like terrified of dogs and she
has a phobia of dogs when i get bit by a
dog
i'm like [ __ ] that was still really
scary the first second of the emotion is
exactly the same
but then i walk myself through it i hold
my hand and i say wow i'll look like
that was dumb
like are you okay like oh [ __ ] that was
scary maybe you should be more careful
next time but i'm like or and then that
it doesn't form a some scar but if what
i tell myself afterwards how are you so
[ __ ] stupid like what's wrong with
you you dumbass
that'll form a sum scar you see that
emotional digestion evoking the feelings
and sitting with them
when you use the term psychoanalyze i
think what you did is work
through stuff you didn't analyze it you
worked through it there's a big
difference
that's true you felt those feelings you
sat with those feelings and you were
your own therapist
so all you have to do is just evoke them
and this is where
i know we've been at this for a while
and you say i don't want to
like what i'm really getting from you is
not an illogical resistance and i
genuinely think you're open-minded and
trying to understand
what i'm getting from you is i don't
wanna
yeah that's true part of it is i really
don't want to because
yep and that's not logical right because
so you can ask me as many questions
about scenarios as you want to that
resistance is going to be there
yeah can ask whatever you want to you
can checkmate as much
me as much as you want i can checkmate
you as much as i want to
it's not going to get anywhere because
hafu you don't want to
that's cool every time
we ban emotionally because they've
triggered a sumscar
i don't you say ban emotionally
yeah yeah i'm just saying it like let's
say someone comes in and says something
that triggers your sunscreen we ban them
i don't think so so i think we ban
people
for reasons that are not emotional right
okay so like action and some scars are
different like you can act without a
some scar
being active in your mind you can ban
someone because
you can like it doesn't hurt you but
you're like this fucker's gotta get
banned
true there's a certain like chillness to
it right that is detachment that is
vairagya yeah you're right you're right
you're right if someone says something
racist
i don't personally get effect affected
by it like it doesn't
exactly feel like that's an attack feel
anything i don't feel like and yet
you're like they have your motivation to
act is still very strong
and that this is where people get
confused because they think that's true
how can you be motivated to act and
still be detached because
most of us get motivated by our [ __ ]
sub scars
and what i'm telling you is that's what
leads to a train wreck of a life
okay yeah that makes sense
so whenever i find myself getting
triggered the right word yep absolutely
okay
whenever i find myself getting triggered
i need to break down why i feel
triggered
sure everything yeah or or you can you
know get someone to help you with that
because like for example like there's a
like so let me ask you something hafu
i mean i don't think we have time to get
into this because i can't keep doing
this i'm running out mp at this point
okay
but why don't you want to
scary there it is
yeah i mean i know i know i don't want
to so we can you can ask me as many
questions you want to it's not going to
get anywhere
so it should be more like every time i
have an emotional response
then i should figure out why i'm getting
that emotional response
i so you said every time i have
emotional response i should figure out
why i'm getting that response i disagree
i'd say do it once a week
let yourself live the other six days of
the week
okay yeah
that makes sense i will keep that in
mind
that it's the thing yeah yeah so
just to give you an example if i wanted
to get you
to want to the next question i would ask
would be what are you scared of
right because there's a some scar
there's something you're afraid of
that's a fear that's
a that's something that's coming up and
then we would work through why you don't
want to
and as we emotionally digest that then
you'll be okay doing the next one
well part of it is we're doing this live
on stream
yeah a lot of the trauma is from stream
yep it's from chat so you want me to
talk through something
you want to give the ammo to the thing
that traumatized me in the first place
so that is why i'm scared of it
you know okay like sure uh i've like for
the longest time
i would stay in my own bubble on twitch
i won
a global evo many years ago i chose not
to ever cash it in
because i would be scared that if i did
do
a picture of myself then it would be
used in a negative way
like that kind of thing right i would
very much stick to my own
bubble it was only in the last two years
that i have felt comfortable collabing
with other people
and felt comfortable
are you hearing me say that i want to
get
into that with you yeah oh no
yes or no well you're saying that no i'm
saying i don't want
okay okay right because i'm explaining
why because i feel like i know why i
don't want to
do it i understand i've there's a reason
why i didn't push when the sum scar came
up right so like for whatever reason
i felt really really a lot of resistance
from you
to explore emotionally so we've just let
that [ __ ] slide like that's okay
okay i'm just sharing with you
intellectually
how that would look yes okay
right a lot of what you have said mate
has made a lot of sense and
uh it is pretty enlightening like the um
like certain comments affects me in
in a different way even if it's negative
so that's what i didn't understand but
now i do
like someone calling me a poopoo head i
might not like it but it's not gonna
like
make me i don't know good
so so now this is very cool because
you've stumbled upon another
halfway you're brilliant okay so you've
stumbled upon another really important
principle
which is pain and pleasure is outside of
the axis
of suffering and contentment
what sorry that went over my head so
you can still continue to feel pain and
pleasure if you are detached
oh okay so pain and pleasure are not on
the same axis
as attachment and detachment so you can
still
feel angry you can still get upset about
stuff but
you don't suffer it's kind of hard to
describe but like you said
there are two things that can annoy you
but the quality of the annoyance is
different yes
yes right one is deeper and one shot
like a surface level yep so so what
what the yogis realize is that there's
actually two things they're not the same
one is on the axis of pain and pleasure
which you can never get
free of that's always going to happen
and then the second
is the axis of attachment and detachment
or suffering in contentment
you know so like i'd say that if i have
to go get a covid test and someone
sticks a swab
like all the way up into my cranium
painful yes it's painful
but i'm not going to suffer it's like
yes
so i think you've stumbled upon that i
think you're very it's impressive
how nuanced you are with understanding
your own experiences
and so i think you're more i mean you're
not wrong about really anything you've
said today
i just think that there's like another
step yeah
definitely cool
questions um
[Music]
no i think i i understand your point i
think i
the thing i was resistant about that i
was challenging about
i think i understand a lot better um
just that you can you're allowed to be
annoyed and you're allowed to act on
things but it's
different than suffering and suffering
is like when you internalize it
right it's like this um
can i ask you when you became less
resistant
mean during this conversation yeah oh i
just didn't understand the concept
because before i was like
but there are people who are just out
there to be rude to you
who exist to be rude and i thought that
your argument was that it doesn't matter
like you should uh
like i now i understand that you're
saying ban their ass they're being dumb
and it's okay to ban them without
actually suffering from it
when in the course of the conversation
did you become more accepting of what i
was saying
it wasn't that i'm being accepting it's
more of like understanding what you're
saying
when did you understand what i was
very recently i think was it before or
after
we talked about your resistance after
okay so i was resisting because i
genuinely didn't understand and now that
i've understood it it's
different and now i can so there's a
there's there's a differential diagnosis
there
which is that genuine understanding
became more possible
once your resistance lowered
yeah that's fine so so what i would
even i'm not sure but
i would say that there's a decent
possibility that
processing your resistance even for a
few minutes because i was bouncing off
right
i was saying the same [ __ ] for an hour
and a half and it kept bouncing off
yeah and now suddenly you're like oh
like now i understand what you're like
what the
what the eighth time was a charm
i didn't understand it i'm not gonna
just accept what you say i never i i
know i
know i know i know you're not but but
what i'm saying is that i like i think
it's a really good illustration
of how understanding and resistance are
tied
and when we address the resistance
explicitly and sort of talk about that
and notice that
then the understanding comes more easily
yes
i agree okay i'm not sure but you know
maybe
i i do agree i do agree i think it's i
was very skeptical
skeptical about what you're saying so
i'd keep challenging it instead of
trying to just
understand it and then when i started
just trying to understand it i could
understand it
okay so you're right you're right that's
not what i'm saying but i think it's no
no no i
know i know i know but i'm just saying
that you're right that like as soon as
i stopped just trying to yeah
refute your points yep so so that too is
that inside the house or outside the
house
inside the house yep
a lot of stuff is inside the house hafu
yeah
okay do you meditate
no want to learn how to meditate
isn't it about thinking about nothing
it's more like
what is it what's that what's the app
there's an app with the british guy
i don't know meditation app anyway
headspace there we go see they knew
headspace
and it's like you think you think about
your breathing and you think about like
oh it's like in yoga they do this but
you think about like
where your body is like where your foot
what your foot is experiencing and
you like focus on that stuff i can't
meditate i've tried it
i know that it's very good but the way
that i fall asleep now is i put on
audible
and then i focus on that and then that
puts me to sleep in 10 minutes
because then instead of like thinking
about my problems or
anxieties in the day i think about
something that has nothing to do with me
and then i fall asleep so it's kind of
like meditation i think
in a way okay so you shared a lot thank
you very much you didn't answer my
question
oh i didn't no i don't think i know how
to actually meditate
that's not what i asked i asked do you
want to meditate
oh sorry i said do you know how to
meditate
unless maybe maybe i said do you know
how to meditate
maybe we can go back i was maybe i
misspoke there too
oh but here's my question do you
want to meditate today now
okay i'm down
i'll ask again i think you answered at
that time but i want an honest answer do
you want to meditate
uh not particularly but i don't i know
i'm not against it
so instead of saying sure because yeah
yep okay so let's think about that okay
okay so if you don't want to
what are we gonna do we don't have to
oh i don't care i'm down for whatever
i'm trying to be as open as possible
am i open or am i hard to work with be
honest
oh
i would say you're easy to work with and
you're closed
oh okay interesting i don't think you're
very open
really no no
huh that's the first time i've heard
that
i've always seen myself as super open
but i'm rigid that's interesting
i like that that's something that i
didn't know about myself
right i thought it was super open
i think you come across as open but like
so you're open
you're open with your manner you're open
with your dialogue
but you're closed in your mind like
you're like a [ __ ]
so they're like like people aren't gonna
people aren't gonna tell you you're
wrong why not
right like you [ __ ] know what you're
talking about
i encourage people to tell me when they
think i'm wrong
yeah i know and i'm open to admitting
when i'm wrong when i think i'm actually
wrong
yep when but so this is the thing but i
do have to think i'm wrong yes
yeah there see so let's let's just look
at like relationship dynamics for a
moment right so like this is going to
cause problems because like
sometimes your partner potentially could
think that you're wrong and if you don't
agree with them
it's going to cause problems but they
have their own perspective
david and i he's the same way if he
doesn't think he's wrong he also won't
back down
so we've had that once so what i what i
really think about closeness is like
what real openness is is acknowledging
that even if you don't think you're
wrong
that you could be wrong
right because you're not gonna be right
all the time anyway that's neither here
nor there i think i'm still deciding
about so you know sniffing a fair amount
of resistance off of you about
meditation
whether it's a good idea to try to teach
you or not
oh right because i will be open to it
okay okay so then let's teach you
something
now the question is what to teach you
i'm bridgette trying to think
i don't think that necessarily because i
don't agree with something that i think
i'm
right it's just i also don't think i'm
wrong
like i i know so logically i know that
cycle
like so i think open and closed
is like too unsophisticated of language
here's what i'd say about you i'd say
from a five factor personality
assessment
i would imagine you to be a high
openness low agreeableness
okay that's fine right so i think you're
open to new experiences you're
exploratory and you're willing to hear
people out
but you're not really flexible with your
opinions
takes a lot to change your mind yeah
there's like other people that are like
oh cool like
i'll go whichever way the wind is
blowing and hoffw's like uh-uh
yeah i yes that is
that's that's good right so that's open
and closed is like unsophisticated high
openness low agreeableness
yeah i'm the same way for what it's
worth yeah it's very accurate
people think i'm really really open but
i'm really [ __ ] judgmental in here
oh that's one thing that i really liked
about myself
that i changed well i really didn't like
how judgmental i was
and my inside the voice in my head
was so judgmental and so like mean
and then i would filter those mean
thoughts like why am i thinking this way
why am i judging this way
and i would always challenge myself and
now my thoughts are very pleasant
until i'm pmsing and then i turn to the
devil
sounds about right that's the only time
where my thoughts are rude
my thoughts are very nice they're very
pleasant because i i cut out all the
mean thoughts
but then hormones are a [ __ ] like what
are you gonna do and that's not my fault
yeah that's not my fault so it's
yeah so let's think about meditation so
now i'm curious about what am i going to
teach you
ah i've got a good one okay okay so we
haven't done this in a little while but
so
so there are two kinds a lot of
different ways to slice up meditation
so what i'm going to do hafu is give you
a meditation technique
it may work for you may not work for you
no big deal but
when people say you know i'm not good at
meditating it generally means that
they just haven't been given the right
kind of technique for their mind
okay so you're someone who's like sort
of skeptical
doesn't want to be told anything you
need to figure things out for yourself
and you're also very like introspective
so i'm going to give you like
okay we're going to give you
[Music]
what i would call an investigative
technique so what we're going to do and
by the way i think listening to audible
is like a good example of meditation i
think you're actually
a born meditator you just have to be
doing it
you have to be given the right kind of
technique for your cognitive
style when you close your eyes and sit
up straight
twitch chat can do it too okay back
should be straight neck should be
straight
and i want you to take a breath through
your nose
breathe in and out
and tell me where do you feel the breath
mean like
my own breath or yep like where is it
coming from inside or outside
either i mean i can feel my breath on my
hands
okay and i can feel it going in and out
of my chest
okay so what does it feel like in your
chest
nothing okay can you feel something
there
not really other than my lungs expanding
okay so that's something
right so you can feel your lungs
expanding so you feel a sensation there
now let me ask you something do you feel
the breath do you feel
only your lungs expanding or do you also
feel the breath
i feel my bra tightening once i inhale
because right
okay so i want you to pay attention to
your nose
okay is there breath there
yeah i can feel it like through my
nostrils okay
coming out and now i want you to follow
it see where it goes as you breathe in
to my sinuses okay keep following see
where it goes
follow it investigate
and then it goes in through my nostrils
to my sinus and then it goes
through my nostrils to my hands
that's that's that right help me
understand when you say it goes through
your sinuses
into your hands well
i can feel it because my nose is here
and my hands are
in my life okay so so what i'm talking
about is feeling the sensation on the
inside
so what i'm hearing you say is the
exhalation you can feel on your hands
okay is that correct yes
but follow the inhalation
pay attention to your throat okay
can you feel the breath in your throat
my throat expands
do you feel the expansion or do you feel
the same quality that you feel in your
nose and your sinuses
what do you mean quality so so you're
describing musculature
when you say my chest is expanding my
throat is expanding
but i would imagine that the feeling
in your throat of expansion in your
physical body
is different from what you feel in your
sinuses
is it
okay so
follow head up straight okay
now follow the breath into your throat
and see if you can differentiate between
the musculature of the throat
and the sensation that you feel in your
sinuses going back into your throat
i don't understand okay
so so i think you
you're doing it fine by the way so okay
so you notice a sensation of breath you
may notice the temperature of the breath
what is the temperature of the breath
where do you feel the coldness in your
body when you breathe in
how far does it go it goes to my sinuses
it's like almost uncomfortable
okay so you don't feel coldness in your
throat
okay that's fine so
when you are doing this so i want you to
focus on your sinuses for a second you
say it feels uncomfortable right so
focus on that sensation of discomfort
it's like i ate too much wasabi okay
okay so now i'm going to give you
a separate practice i want you to catch
the moment
when inhalation becomes exhalation
what about that moment have you found it
tell me about it
it's like at the top of okay
just everything stops for a sec okay
so are you holding your breath
yes for like a split
good so normally when you breathe in and
you breathe out you don't hold your
breath right
so i want you to stop holding your
breath and find the moment in between
inhalation and exhalation
what am i looking for just find the
moment between
in inhalation and exhalation
without holding your breath
i know i found it so what am i looking
okay so if you can find it without
holding your breath i want you to sit
in that space
what
what do you mean sit in this okay
this is helpful let me think for a
second
you can open your eyes
what oh just uh
i don't know close my eyes for a while
does the world look different yeah but
that's normal
right i don't know does that usually
happen when you close your eyes
no it feels like everything's a lot more
clear
maybe you just meditated
so it's meditation is
thinking about
less right kind of like decluttering
your mind
no no so it's not thinking at all
so focus and thought are two different
things
meditation is focused to the exclusion
of thought
which is something you figured out with
audible because you focus the attention
of your mind on an audio book
and then your mind shuts down and you
fall asleep
yes so what i i actually don't think
these are the right techniques for you i
think there are other techniques that
are going to be better
but i think you did a good job and you
can continue to use these techniques
so my thought was that if i tell you to
do
i have to give your mind something
because like i don't know how to
put this but when i tell you to find the
in between space
all of your attention is zoomed in
on one thing and you're not thinking
about anything
you're like listening right so like all
of your attention is like
concentrated into a point yes it's like
focusing on the experience yep
and so there's no thought there yeah
the thought was actually interrupting
you because you were like am i doing it
right
that's yeah yeah yeah right so the more
that you got away from that
so i i would just so sometimes for
people
like you what i recommend is meditation
that is a question
instead of a practice so
i'm going to tell you for example that
your breath
travels further than your sinuses in
your nose
right and if you focus on it you can
feel it in your throat
that cool sensation that feels almost
painful
which what the [ __ ] got there different
day
but you know who knew that breathing
clearly was painful
um and and so if you follow that
coldness it'll go into your throat and
if you follow it
see where it goes because i think for
someone who's inquisitive and doesn't
take like if i tell you to
you know do something you're gonna be
like what the [ __ ] am i doing this for
yeah right so so i have to give you
something that's going to engage your
mind and keep you curious
oddly enough i think that your mind is
actually very concrete so when i ask you
abstract questions like sit in between
the space between
inhalation and exhalation i know this
sounds weird some people understand what
the [ __ ] i'm talking about but you're
like what is that
i don't know you know which is totally
fine so so
you know if i give a chance if i get a
chance to teach you a different
technique of meditation i'm going to
have to
adapt for that and and do something very
good but i didn't need to say
audible it's kind of like meditation yep
it is because what you're doing is
you're focusing your mind it's a dharma
yeah
yeah it's it's nice yep but i i
i don't know if you i don't know if
audible will give you the clarity of
vision
and the crystal clearness of the world
afterward
yeah who cares i'm asleep that's great
it's going to put you to sleep
i should be right to sleep so if you do
these kinds of techniques i would say
you know try to explore and see what the
[ __ ] i mean
when i say sit in the space between
inhalation and exhalation
without holding your breath and if you
spend a few minutes
doing that a couple times a day you can
alternate between the two because i
imagine you're going to get bored of one
quickly
why is meditation good
uh because it gives us time outside of
our mind
why do we need that because our mind is
the source of our suffering
oh okay that's fair
see sometimes ask super challenging like
oh like
what is the purpose of that it's
actually pretty simple for rigid
concrete people like us it's like that
simple
yeah if you tell them because tell me
why don't you go like watch some
youtube lecture on youtube video and the
like
and they'll you ask why should we
meditate some guy's gonna give you some
[ __ ] profound answer about
yeah inner peace and it's like that's
how they make money you need the video
to be at least 10 minutes
no yeah it's just very simple spend time
outside of your mind because the mind is
the origin of all of your suffering
cool cool
um questions or thoughts before you wrap
up
no this is good this is good i called
that i was gonna cry
i did cry but i feel good and um
thank you for challenging me thank you
for challenging me
i found that i'm rigid
that's not new to you though it is
really well frigid isn't the term i
would use for myself
but now you're right not agreeable yep
yep but i don't think it's more it's not
i don't think it's necessarily a bad
thing it's not
i don't think it's a bad thing at all
yeah
okay well thanks a lot hafu thank you
thank you so much for having me i'm glad
we finally got to do this
yeah likewise and good luck with
everything hopefully this has helped in
some way but
um you know if you have questions and
stuff down the road feel free to hit me
up okay
okay all right take care bye-bye thank
you
[Music]
what are we who are we rating
oh we want to write both of these nuts
ray joe mama